[Autogenerated] All right.
So let's take a look at some of the different Docker stat
commands that we looked at earlier and see how we can actually
take a Docker Compose file and deploy it.
List the stacks that we've deployed,
remove it and even look at some kubectl commands along the way.
The sample I'm gonna run here can be found at this GitHub URL Angular jumpstart.
Now, this sample has a Node.js back in, has an Angular front end,
and then optionally can use something called C adviser.
It's a container monitoring type tool.
Let's go ahead and dive in here.
So I've already loaded this Angular jumpstart project.
I just wanna walk you through the basics.
So it has a pretty simple Node.js back end.
Here's the API for that.
And then it has an Angular application that calls into that back end and that
could be found in the source folder that you'll see here.
So everything has already been installed.
I could run it locally if I wanted.
And you can find instructions on that in the Read me if you'd like,
but I'm going to go to the Docker Compose file and at the top,
you're gonna notice that I have some pretty basic and standard
instructions for doing a Docker Compose bill to get the image is
ready and then a Docker Compose up.
If you want to run it locally and then we can visit local host
and then you know you live long and prosper.
So let's go ahead and get that going first just to kind of prove that,
Yeah, this is just a normal Docker Compose.
So I've already done the build, so I won't do that again.
But you would need to run that It does have a multi stage
build for the Angular app to actually build it and then
deploy it as an engine ex container.
So once you've done that, you can then do the up.
I'm gonna do it in detached mode so we can get back the command prompt here.
And then we'll give it just a ____ for everything to fire up.
While it's doing that.
Let me scroll to the bottom.
And if you're on macro Linux, you can do uncommon Tse adviser.
I'm not going to do that here,
But what that will do is allow you to get to local host 9000,
and that would show you information about the running containers if you want it.
Now, that won't work on Windows at least as of today.
So just kind of be aware that this would be a Mac or Linux type thing.
If I go back to the top, you'll notice that I have to services.
We have one for Engine X,
and this is gonna have the build information for building.
Angular has our ports that we're gonna call when we run this and the
Angular app will actually be right there on the front end.
And then that service depends on as you'll see here, node.
And this is our second service and you'll see it's
pretty standard has our build context, couple environment,
variables, ports.
And they're both using this bridge network called app Network to communicate.
All right, so everything should be up by now.
Let me go ahead and open up a browser.
So I'm gonna go ahead and just go to local host,
because that's what the engine NICs container is listening on.
Port 80.
And this will,
though the Angular front end from Engine X that then calls
into the node service that's running and that gets the data
that you see here and then from here,
you can drill down and get orders and things like that.
Now let's go back into the command Prompt,
though, and let's see the running containers.
And then we'll get these running in kubernetes.
So we'll do a standard Docker PS,
and you'll notice that we have our two services running.
Now there's our engine X Angular jumpstart and our nodes services jump start.
So we have our front end and that calls into RBAC in the.
Now that's all good, but that's just Docker Compose.
That's nothing special with Cooper Nettie.
So let's go ahead and do a Docker Compose down.
And now that's gone well,
kind of prove it by doing API s dash A to list everything and
you'll see we don't have anything left, which would be expected.
So now let's say we want to deploy this to kubernetes.
Well,
the first thing is I'd have to make sure that in Docker desktop
settings or preferences that we have Kubernetes enabled,
which I do, and we have to make sure that the Docker stacks is enabled,
which I also have done that we covered that a little bit earlier in this module.
So the next thing is I can.
Simply run Docker stack, deploy And then I say Dash.
See, this is the path to the composed file.
In this case,
it's just standard Docker Compose YAML file and then I can give it a name.
Let's call this n g jumpstart, Angular jumpstart.
I'm gonna hit Enter and there we go,
so you'll notice it's now creating everything we need.
Our services are deployments are replica sets and I'll show you that
in a moment to run this application in kubernetes.
But yet we didn't write a single line of YAML file for Kubernetes,
so it's a really easy way to get that going.
All right, so let's see what's happening here.
Let's do Docker stack ls.
And there we go.
We have to services now that have been deployed to the orchestrator of
Kubernetes into the standard default name space.
Is it working?
Let's go back to the browser now.
This is the old page.
So just to kind of prove that, let's go ahead and we'll go to some port.
I don't have 500.
Okay, side unreachable.
So let's go back to local host.
That's refresh.
And there we do.
So now we're working and you'll see I can navigate to other aspects.
And this is all hitting kubernetes.
Now let's prove that by going and writing some kubectl commands,
so we'll come on back in and do kubectl get all and
you'll notice right up the top.
There's are two pots, so there's our engine X that's serving up Angular.
Here's RBAC end RESTful API, which is Node.js.
It also created some different types of services.
Notice I have a load balancer for the front end.
That's the Port 80.
And for the API, that's the 80 80.
That's actually what the Angular JavaScript is calling into.
That's the RESTful API.
We also have deployments for both, and we have replica sets for both,
and it just kind of does that automatically now.
If we wanted, we could even do something like kubectl get pot,
and then we could go up and grab a pod name.
Here, let's grab the engine x one.
And of course, we could do Dash Oh, YAML file.
And that would output it.
Now this is going to include things that you really
wouldn't want if you did this by hand,
but at least it gives you some Yamil that you could literally copy and paste.
Or better yet, I could do this and I could go to some output YAML file,
and we could actually output that to that file if we wanted.
And we could do that for these.
Various resource is now.
If you're going with this approach,
I would argue you're probably doing it because you don't
want to deal with the Kubernetes XAML and you just want to
get it running in kubernetes.
So that's how easy it is to do now.
If we want to stop this we can, go ahead and run the Docker stack,
remove and then give it the name of the stack well,
as a reminder.
If we do ls, it's and jumpstart.
So let's go back to here.
We'll do our M and then n g jump start.
Okay, says removing.
Let's quickly do a kubectl get all.
And there we go.
The engine X is already terminated.
Now it's terminating node.
The services have already been wiped out.
You can see both those load balancers are gone and
notice it's still working here.
But if we give it a little bit of time, everything will be gone momentarily.
Kid it's still terminating the note pod.
We could even do cache, cache, watch If we wanted,
we could say get pod CloudWatch and just kind of let it sit
there until it finally terminates it.
Eventually, this will go away, but in the interest of time,
we will move onward and upward here.
Well, that's how easy it is to actually taken existing Docker Compose filing.
You'll notice this is pretty standard stuff here and not only use that to
build our Docker images and run it locally if we want,
but also try it out in kubernetes.
That actually offers some really nice abilities to see how
this is going to run in that environment,
because it's always good to run it where it might run in
your staging production type environments,
even if it's not an identical kubernetes cluster.
So I hope that gives you an idea of the power of the Docker stat command.
Now, is this the way to go?
Not necessarily.
It really depends.
We're gonna look at another option in the next module. This is one option that you could certainly choose